.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Peter Glen
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"

.TH hsencfs 1 "Tue 7 Jun 2022" "Peter Glen"
.SH NAME
hsencfs \- High Security Encrypting File System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsencfs
[
.I options
]  dataroot mountpoint
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B HSENCFS
is a user space encrypting file system. It is simple to set up,
seamless to use, fast, safe, secure and maintenance free.  It will
automatically encrypt data written to it, decrypt data read from it. It
only uses storage space for actual data stored, no pre-allocation
needed. It is fast, secure, maintainance free. Classified as a variable key
length encryption.

   An additional and useful feature is auditing. HSENCFS reports file
access by time and user ID. The report is sent to syslog. The log is
sent to facility 'daemon' with level 'DEBUG'. See: the -l log option.)

.SH OPTIONS
    -l num      - Use log level  (--loglevel)
    -p pass     - Use pass (!!Warning!! clear text pass) (--pass)
    -a program  - Use program for asking pass (--askpass)
    -o          - On demand pass. Ask on first access (--ondemand)
    -f          - Force creation of storagedir/mountpoint (--force)
    -q          - Quiet (--quiet)
    -v          - Verbose (--verbose)
    -V          - Print version (--version)

See the info page for more details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the hsencfs info page for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Glen <peterglen99@gmail.com>



