\input texinfo @c -*- texinfo -*-
 
@settitle hsencfs
@setfilename hsencfs.info
@finalout
@synindex ky cp

@titlepage
@title hsencfs
@sp 7
@center @titlefont{HSENCFS}
@sp 3
@end titlepage

@copying
@c man begin COPYRIGHT
Copyright @copyright{} 2015 Peter Glen

  Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no
Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License''.

@c man end
@end copying

@dircategory Data Security
@direntry
* hsencfs: (hsencfs).                 High Security Encrypting File System
@end direntry

@dircategory Individual utilities
@direntry
* bpdec2: (hsencfs)bpdec2.          HSENCFS Decrypt Files
* bpenc2: (hsencfs)bpenc2.          HSENCFS Encrypt Files
* hstray.py: (hsencfs)hstray.py.    HSENCFS GNOME Panel utility
@end direntry

@contents
 
@node Top
@top HSENCFS High Security Encrypted File System

@cindex Introduction
@section Introduction

HSENCFS is a user space encrypting file system. It is simple to set up, seamless to use,
fast, safe, secure and maintenance free. It will automatically encrypt data 
written to it, decrypt data read from it. It only uses storage space for 
actual data stored, no pre-allocation is needed. It is fast enough for 
real time video encryption, and safe enough for all purposes.

HSENCFS is classified as a variable key length encryption.

@noindent
An additional and useful feature is auditing. HSENCFS reports file access
by time and user ID. The report is sent to syslog. The log is sent to facility
'daemon' with level 'DEBUG'. See: the -l log option.)

@section Quick Usage:
@example
    hsencfs ~/.secretdata ~/secrets
@end example

@noindent The above command exposes the ~/secrets directory with the backing data 
directory in ~/.secretdata. Will ask for password on startup.

@menu
* Command Line::                    Options and arguments
* Passwords::                       Passwords and Key Management
* Safety and Security::             How to use HSENCFS
* Directories::                     Directory Descriptions
* Un-mounting::                     Un-Mounting (secret) directories
* bpdec2::                          Decryption utility
* bpenc2::                          Encryption utility
* hstray.py::                       GNOME System tray
* GNU Free Documentation License::  Copying and Redistributing
* Further development::             The industrial version
* Hsencfs Index::                   Hsencfs Index
@end menu

@node Un-mounting
@chapter Un Mounting (secret) mounts

You may un-mount your secret directory with the normal umount utility
or the fusermount -u option. After un-mounting, the mounted data is not
accessible, and the encrypted data is not legible until it is mounted again
and the correct password is entered.

@example
        fusermount -u ~/mysecret
@end example

You may also use the hstray.py GNOME panel utility to unmount secret 
directories. The panel utility can only see mounts created by 
by the panel utility.

All directories are automatically unmounted on system shutdown, so HSENCFS
content is securely protected.
                                          
@node Passwords
@chapter Passwords

@c man title Passwords

@c man Enter password into HSENCFS

@cindex Passwords
@section Password / Key management.

HSENCFS does not manage passwords. The password becomes the encryption key,
and the key is used to encrypt the file system access. If the password / key
is lost, the data cannot be recovered.

As the password becomes the key, it is possible to achieve long key lengths
by entering a long password. Short key lengths are replicated to standard
legal length.

@cindex On Demand Password
@section On Demand Password entry:

 HSENCFS mount can be mounted (started) with the on-demand (-o) password
option. This allows the encryption to ask for a password when any
encrypted file is first accessed.
 The on-demand option requires the use of an ask pass program. The
hsaskpass.py is supplied for GUI deployment. HSENCFS will start the ask pass
program when a password is needed. This only truly makes sense on GUI
deployment, but the console program (hsaskpass) can also be specified.

An example of on demand password command line:

@example
hsencfs -o -a 'which hsaskpass.py` ~/.mydata ~/mysecret
@end example

The 'which' utility is executed as HSENCFS does not search the path. An
 additional measure to prevent users from tempering with the askpass path.

@node Safety and Security
@chapter Safety and Security

@cindex Safety, Seurity
@cindex Feeding and Care
@section Safety, Security, Feeding and Care

HSENCFS uses BluePoint2 encryption. Bluepoint2 has been thoroughly tested,
and withstood the test of time. The backing files in the data directory
preserve their original names, size, and access times. The only dependence
they need is the original password. This means they can be safely copied from
the backing directory for transport (like email / cloud) or backup. Please note
that HSENCFS relies on the file system having block size 4096. This is
the case with most modern systems, so it does not present an issue. If the
block size is not 4096, HSENCFS will operate fine, but the data may not be
portable across systems.

@node Directories
@chapter Directories

@cindex The Data Directory
@section The Data directory:

Files can be extracted from the backing data directory with the 'bpdec2'
utility. To extract a single encrypted file by hand:

     bpdec2 ~/secretdata/filename > newname

(Will ask for password.)

Also, files can be copied to the backing data directory with
the 'bpenc2' utility. To add a single file into the data directory by hand:

     bpdec2 filename > ~/.secretdata/newname

(Will ask for password.)

Both utilities need the correct password to be accessible from the HSENCFS.

Files can be copied out from the backing data directory. They stay encrypted
when copied directly out of the data directory. This is useful for backup /
replication / archiving etc ...

@cindex The Mountpoint directory
@section The Mountpoint directory:

When the mountpoint is mounted, data is encrypted / decrypted on the fly.
FUSE will warn you if the mount directory is not empty on mount. (it is
usually undesirable to mount over data)

HSENCFS makes use of the API offered by the fuse subsystem to intercept file
operations. The interception is done from mountdata to mountpoint. Copying
data to mountpoint ends up encrypted in mountdata. Because of HSENCFS intercept
concept, encryption / decryption is fast. It is possible to use it to encrypt
video streams.

@cindex The System Tray / Panel
@section Controlling HSENCFS

HSENCFS can be controlled from the GNOME System tray with the hstray.py utility. New mounts can be added, mounted or unmounted. The mounts are
relative to the user's home directory unless absolute path is specified. Deleting mounts from the hstray's list does not effect the data behind it.
The mounts created from the system tray are visible from the command line,
but the mounts created on the command line are not visible in the system
tray. (added protection)

@node bpdec2
@chapter bpdec2

@cindex bpdec2 Decrypting Utility

@section HSENCFS Decrypting Utility

This utility is intended as a rescue / testing tool for HSENCFS.
Files can be extracted from the backing data directory with the 'bpdec2' 
utility. To extract a single encrypted file by hand:

     bpdec2 ~/secretdata/filename > newfilename
     
(Will ask for password.)

Please note, that no key management is done, this utility will blindly obey 
your command to decrypt a file. Entering the wrong 
password on decryption will generate false clear text. 

     !!! It is your responsibility to use this collection as intended. !!!

@cindex bpenc2 Encrypting Utility
@node bpenc2
@chapter bpenc2

@section HSENCFS Encrypting Utility

This utility is intended as a rescue / testing tool for HSENCFS.
Files can be copied to the backing data directory with 
the 'bpenc2' utility. To add a single file into the data directory by hand:

     bpdec2 filename > ~/.secretdata/newfilename
     
(Will ask for password.)

Please note, that no key management is done, this utility will blindly obey 
your command to encrypt a file. Entering the wrong password on encryption
will generate false cypher text.

     !!! It is your responsibility to use this collection as intended. !!!

@node hstray.py
@chapter hstray.py
@cindex The Panel Utility
@section The HSENCFS GNOME System tray / Panel utility

HSENCFS can be controlled from the GNOME System tray with the hstray.py 
utility. New mounts can be added, mounted or unmounted. The mounts are 
relative to the user's home directory unless absolute path is specified.
Deleting mounts from the hstray's list does not effect the data behind it.

The mounts created from the system tray are visible from the command line, 
but the mounts created on the command line are not visible in the system 
tray. (added protection)

@node Command Line
@chapter Command Line

@section Command Line options and arguments

Usage: hsencfs [options] storagedir mountpoint

@indent  'storageedir' is a storage directory for data.@*
@indent  'mountpoint' is a directory for user visible data.

@noindent
Use dotted name as storagedir for convenient hiding  of data names@.
(example: ~/.secretdata)

@subheading Options:

@indent  -l num      -- Use log level  (--loglevel)@*
@indent   -p pass     -- Use pass (!!Warning!! cleartext pass) (--pass)@*
@indent   -a program  -- Use program for asking pass (--askpass)@*
@indent   -o          -- On demand pass. Ask on first access (--ondemand)@*
@indent   -f          -- Force creation of storagedir/mountpoint (--force)@*
@indent   -q          -- Quiet (--quiet)@*
@indent   -v          -- Verbose (--verbose)@*
@indent   -V          -- Print version (--version).

@section Option descriptions:

@itemize @bullet
@item
    -l num      -- Use log level  (--loglevel num)

Log levels:   1 - start/stop;   2 - open/create
              3 - read/write;   4 - all (noisy)
@item
    -p pass     -- Use command line pass (--pass pass)

Warning! This is a clear text pass. While hsencfs obfuscates
your pass from the command line (like: ps xa) it creates
security gap because of the temporarily visible password.

@item
    -a askpass  -- Use a program to ask for pass (--askpass prog)

Hsencfs will start the askpass program will deliver the password
back to HSENCFS. There are two default askpass programs supplied,
hsaskpass and hsaskpass.py. The hsaskpass.py is a GUI program to enable
the system to interact with the user. You may supply a custom
askpass program to suit your needs. Please note, that the askpass
mechanism can be the primary means of intercepting your password.
Make sure you check system integrity regularly. (For example
verify md5 sinatures - @xref{Verify Notes}.

@item
    -o  -- On demand pass. Ask on first access (--ondemand)

Hsencfs will delay prompting for password until the first file
access to the encrypted directory. The ondemand option requires
an askpass program.

@item
    -f  -- Force creation of storagedir/mountpoint (--force)

Create storagedir/mountpoint directories if do not exist. Usual access
controls apply.

@item
    -q  -- Quiet (--quiet)

Display less information when starting hsencfs.

@item
    -v   -- Verbose (--verbose)

Display more information when starting hsencfs.

@item
    -V      -- Print version (--version)

Show version information.

@end itemize

@example
Use -- (double dash) at the end of options for appending fuse options.
@end example

@noindent For example:

@example
'hsencfs sdata mpoint -- -o ro' # for read only mount.
'hsencfs sdata mpoint -- -o allow_other' # for multi user visible mount.
@end example

Fuse will not allow most of the allow_other option unless configured
in /etc/fuse.conf (add a line: 'user_allow_other')

Typical invocation:

@example
    hsenc -l 2  ~/.secretdata ~/secret
@end example

@node Further development
@chapter Further development
@section Further development

The industrial / professional version of this project is available upon 
request. Please send a message to the author. (see Sourceforge page)

@anchor{Notes}
@section Notes

 Creating a custom askpass program to read key(s) from a hardware
key allows a hardware access control to be developed. See the
hsaskpass source(s) for details.

@anchor{Verify Notes}
@section Verification Notes

The HSENCFS project has an md5 sum file for all it's files. One can verify 
the project's integrity with the shell utility 'checksum.sh' @*
The sum is generated with the gensum.sh shell utility. @*
^The command 'make installcheck' in the original dir also confirms
 project integrity after installation.

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include gpl.texi

@node Hsencfs Index
@unnumbered Hsencfs Index

@printindex cp

@bye


