.\" Copyright (C) 2015, 2025 Peter Glen
.\"
.\" This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"

.TH hsencfs 1 "Mon 02.Jun.2025" "Peter Glen"
.SH NAME
hsencfs \- High Security ENCrypting File System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hsencfs [options] MountPoint [MountData]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B HSENCFS
is a user space encrypting file system. It is simple to set up,
seamless to use, fast, safe, secure and maintenance free.  It will
automatically encrypt data written to it, decrypt data read from it. It
only uses storage space for actual data stored, no pre-allocation
needed. It is fast, secure, maintainance free. Classified as a variable key
length encryption.

   An additional and useful feature is auditing. HSENCFS reports file
access by time and user ID. The report is sent to syslog. The log is
sent to facility 'daemon' with level 'DEBUG'. See: the -l log option.)

.SH OPTIONS
    -a program  - Use program for asking pass (--askpass)
    -d num      - Use debul level  (--debug)
    -l num      - Use log level  (--loglevel)
    -o          - Ask pass on start, instead of on demand. (--ondemand)
    -p pass     - Use pass (!!Warning!! clear text pass) (--pass)
    -v          - Verbose (--verbose)
    -V          - Print version (--version)

See the info page for more details.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the hsencfs info page for more details.
.SH AUTHOR
Peter Glen <peterglen99@gmail.com>

